Add a walkthrough to setup everything with kind and istio (#1677)
tektoncd/dashboard: docs/walkthrough/walkthrough-istio.md

You can verify that the ports were correctly mapped by `docker` by running `docker ps`. The output should show something like this:

```bash
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                  COMMAND                  CREATED              STATUS              PORTS                                                                      NAMES
084e58aa36fe        kindest/node:v1.17.0   "/usr/local/bin/entr…"   About a minute ago   Up 56 seconds       127.0.0.1:32778->6443/tcp, 0.0.0.0:80->30080/tcp, 0.0.0.0:443->30443/tcp   walkthrough-control-plane
```

## Installing the istio operator

Now that the cluster is up and running, you will need to install istio.

Instead of installing istio directly in the cluster, you will install the `istio-operator` then the operator will take care of installing the istio service mesh inside the cluster.

Install `istio-operator` by running the following commands:

```bash
istioctl operator init
```

Once the command succeeds, the `istio-operator` should be running in the cluster.

## Installing the istio service mesh

> To install the istio service mesh components you need create an `IstioOperator` resource inside your cluter that describes the settings of the service mesh to be created by the `istio-operator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the istio service mesh components you need to create an `IstioOperator` resource inside your cluster that describes the settings of the service mesh to be created by the `istio-operator`.
```

> Tun the following command to create a service mesh, exposing the ingress gateway through a `NodePort` service with http/https trafic coming on port 30080/30443:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to create a service mesh, exposing the ingress gateway through a `NodePort` service with http/https traffic coming on port 30080/30443:
```

kubectl wait -n tekton-pipelines \
  --for=condition=ready pod \
  --selector=app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tekton-pipelines,app.kubernetes.io/component=controller \
  --timeout=90s
```

Tekton Pipelines should be up and running.

## Installing Tekton Triggers (optional)

Installing Tekton Triggers is not mandatory, if you don't want to install Tekton Triggers, you can skip this section.
If you don't install Tekton Triggers, triggers related resources won't show up in the side nav.

Installing the latest Tekton Triggers release is done by running the following command:

```bash
curl -sL https://storage.googleapis.com/tekton-releases/triggers/latest/release.yaml | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl apply -f -

kubectl wait -n tekton-pipelines \
  --for=condition=ready pod \
  --selector=app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tekton-triggers,app.kubernetes.io/component=controller \
  --timeout=90s
```

Tekton Triggers should be up and running.

## Installing Tekton Dashboard

Installing the latest Tekton Dashboard release is done by running the following command:

```bash

> # NOTE: it's not completely supported yet by the release-installer, checkout the repo and use this instead

Reviewer: https://github.com/tektoncd/dashboard/pull/1676 is merged now

Author: fixed, thanks

Assuming the following url `http://tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io`, run the following command to create the istio `Gateway` and `VirtualService` to expose the Dashboard:

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
  name: tekton-dashboard
spec:
  selector:
    istio: ingressgateway
  servers:
    - port:
        number: 80
        name: http
        protocol: HTTP
      hosts:
        - tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io
---
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
  name: tekton-dashboard
spec:
  hosts:
    - tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io
  gateways:
    - tekton-dashboard
  http:
    - route:
        - destination:
            host: tekton-dashboard
            port:
              number: 9097
EOF
```

Browse `http://tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io` to access your dashboard.

## Browsing the istio dashboard

You can browse the istio dashboard by running the following command:

```bash
istioctl dashboard kiali
```

> Default install uses the `admin`/`admin` for login and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default install uses `admin`/`admin` for login and password.
```

1. [`istioctl`](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/getting-started/#download): For installing istio.

Nothing more is required to run the walkthrough !

## Service mesh benefits

Using a service mesh brings benefits in several domains:
- security
- observability
- resiliency

Some security benefits:
- mutual TLS brings secure communications inside the cluster (encrypted and authenticated)
- egress control prevents data exfiltration and domains white list
- network policies allow to secure pod-to-pod or service-to-service communication at the network and application layers

Some observality benefits:
- understand how service performance impacts things upstream and downstream
- help detect and fix issues quickly and efficiently

Some resiliency benefits:
- automatically retry failed service calls
- mirror traffic to send a copy of live traffic to a mirrored service
- add circuit breakers directly on the wire
- inject network faults to test applications behaviour

The list is by no means exhaustive and service meshes bring a lot more benefits than just those enumerated above.

> Visit [istio's webpage](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/) or [istio's blog](https://istio.io/latest/blog) for more infos.

Reviewer: small typo, otherwise this is a great summary! 🎉 

```suggestion
Visit [istio's webpage](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/) or [istio's blog](https://istio.io/latest/blog) for more info.
```

Author: Fixed

# Tekton Dashboard walkthrough - Kind and Istio

> This guide walks you through installing a working Tekton Dashboard locally from scratch. It covers the following topics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks you through installing a working Tekton Dashboard locally from scratch with Istio. It covers the following topics:
```

* [Before you begin](#before-you-begin)
* [Service mesh benefits](#service-mesh-benefits)
* [Creating a local Kubernetes cluster](#creating-a-local-kubernetes-cluster)

> * [Installing the istio operator](#installing-the-istio-operator)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Installing the Istio operator](#installing-the-istio-operator)
```

> * [Installing the istio service mesh](#installing-the-istio-service-mesh)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Installing the Istio service mesh](#installing-the-istio-service-mesh)
```

* [Note on sidecar injection](#note-on-sidecar-injection)
* [Installing Tekton Pipelines](#installing-tekton-pipelines)
* [Installing Tekton Triggers (optional)](#installing-tekton-triggers-optional)
* [Installing Tekton Dashboard](#installing-tekton-dashboard)

> * [Setting up the istio Gateway and VirtualService](#setting-up-the-istio-gateway-and-virtualservice)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Setting up the Istio Gateway and VirtualService](#setting-up-the-istio-gateway-and-virtualservice)
```

> * [Browsing the istio dashboard](#browse-the-istio-dashboard)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Browsing the Istio dashboard](#browse-the-istio-dashboard)
```

* [Adding basic authentication](#adding-basic-authentication)
* [Cleaning up](#cleaning-up)

## Before you begin

Before you begin, make sure the following tools are installed:

1. [`kind`](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io): For creating a local cluster running on top of docker.

> 1. [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl): For interacting with your kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl): For interacting with your Kubernetes cluster.
```

> 1. [`istioctl`](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/getting-started/#download): For installing istio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [`istioctl`](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/getting-started/#download): For installing Istio.
```

Nothing more is required to run the walkthrough !

## Service mesh benefits

Using a service mesh brings benefits in several domains:
- security
- observability
- resiliency

Some security benefits:
- mutual TLS brings secure communications inside the cluster (encrypted and authenticated)
- egress control prevents data exfiltration and domains white list
- network policies allow to secure pod-to-pod or service-to-service communication at the network and application layers

Some observality benefits:
- understand how service performance impacts things upstream and downstream
- help detect and fix issues quickly and efficiently

Some resiliency benefits:
- automatically retry failed service calls
- mirror traffic to send a copy of live traffic to a mirrored service
- add circuit breakers directly on the wire
- inject network faults to test applications behaviour

The list is by no means exhaustive and service meshes bring a lot more benefits than just those enumerated above.

> Visit [istio's webpage](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/) or [istio's blog](https://istio.io/latest/blog) for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit [Istio's webpage](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/) or [Istio's blog](https://istio.io/latest/blog) for more info.
```

## Creating a local Kubernetes cluster

The first thing to do is to create a Kubernetes cluster.

Kind is an easy solution to run a local cluster, all it needs is to have `docker` installed.

Create a cluster by running the following command:

```bash
kind create cluster --name walkthrough --config - <<EOF
kind: Cluster
apiVersion: kind.x-k8s.io/v1alpha4
nodes:
- role: control-plane
  extraPortMappings:
  - containerPort: 30080
    hostPort: 80
    protocol: TCP
  - containerPort: 30443
    hostPort: 443
    protocol: TCP
EOF
```

> This will create a cluster with ports 80 and 443 exposed on the host computer. This is needed to communicate with the istio ingress gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a cluster with ports 80 and 443 exposed on the host computer. This is needed to communicate with the Istio ingress gateway.
```

Once the cluster is started, you can check that the context was added in your kubeconfig file by running:

```bash
kubectl config get-contexts
```

The output should look something like this:

```bash
CURRENT   NAME                                                 CLUSTER                          AUTHINFO                               NAMESPACE
*         kind-walkthrough                                     kind-walkthrough                 kind-walkthrough                       
```

The `kind-walkthrough` is the context for the cluster you just created and the `*` at the beginning means that it is the currently active context.

You can verify that the ports were correctly mapped by `docker` by running `docker ps`. The output should show something like this:

```bash
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                  COMMAND                  CREATED              STATUS              PORTS                                                                      NAMES
084e58aa36fe        kindest/node:v1.17.0   "/usr/local/bin/entr…"   About a minute ago   Up 56 seconds       127.0.0.1:32778->6443/tcp, 0.0.0.0:80->30080/tcp, 0.0.0.0:443->30443/tcp   walkthrough-control-plane
```

> ## Installing the istio operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installing the Istio operator
```

Now that the cluster is up and running, you will need to install istio.

> Instead of installing istio directly in the cluster, you will install the `istio-operator` then the operator will take care of installing the istio service mesh inside the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of installing Istio directly in the cluster, you will install the `istio-operator` then the operator will take care of installing the Istio service mesh inside the cluster.
```

Install `istio-operator` by running the following commands:

```bash
istioctl operator init
```

Once the command succeeds, the `istio-operator` should be running in the cluster.

> ## Installing the istio service mesh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installing the Istio service mesh
```

> To install the istio service mesh components you need to create an `IstioOperator` resource inside your cluster that describes the settings of the service mesh to be created by the `istio-operator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the Istio service mesh components you need to create an `IstioOperator` resource inside your cluster that describes the settings of the service mesh to be created by the `istio-operator`.
```

Tekton Dashboard requires to have Tekton Pipelines installed.

Installing the latest Tekton Pipelines release is done by running the following command:

```bash
curl -sL https://storage.googleapis.com/tekton-releases/pipeline/latest/release.yaml | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl apply -f -

kubectl wait -n tekton-pipelines \
  --for=condition=ready pod \
  --selector=app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tekton-pipelines,app.kubernetes.io/component=controller \
  --timeout=90s
```

Tekton Pipelines should be up and running.

## Installing Tekton Triggers (optional)

Installing Tekton Triggers is not mandatory, if you don't want to install Tekton Triggers, you can skip this section.
If you don't install Tekton Triggers, triggers related resources won't show up in the side nav.

Installing the latest Tekton Triggers release is done by running the following command:

```bash
curl -sL https://storage.googleapis.com/tekton-releases/triggers/latest/release.yaml | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl apply -f -

kubectl wait -n tekton-pipelines \
  --for=condition=ready pod \
  --selector=app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tekton-triggers,app.kubernetes.io/component=controller \
  --timeout=90s
```

> Tekton Triggers should be up and running.

Reviewer: I think we can remove this section. It's already included in the basic `kind` walkthrough, and not really relevant to the Istio content here.

The link will also need to be remove from the TOC at the top

Author: fixed

## Installing Tekton Dashboard

Installing the latest Tekton Dashboard release is done by running the following command:

```bash

> curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tektoncd/dashboard/master/scripts/release-installer | \

Reviewer: fails here:

```shell
$ curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tektoncd/dashboard/master/scripts/release-installer | \
→    bash -s -- build latest --output /dev/stdout | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl apply -f -
Error: error converting YAML to JSON: yaml: line 2: mapping values are not allowed in this context
error: no objects passed to apply
```

Author: yeah, we don't have cut a release that support version `latest` yet (and `v0.8.2` won't work here because you can't | it to `istioctl`).

Reviewer: ah of course, that makes sense now 👍

   bash -s -- build latest --output /dev/stdout | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl apply -f -

kubectl wait -n tekton-pipelines \
  --for=condition=ready pod \
  --selector=app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tekton-dashboard,app.kubernetes.io/component=dashboard \
  --timeout=90s
```

Tekton Dashboard should be up and running.

> ## Setting up the istio Gateway and VirtualService

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting up the Istio Gateway and VirtualService
```

To access the Dashboard through the ingress controller it is necessary to set up an ingress rule. The ingress rule maps a host name to the Tekton Dashboard service running inside the cluster.

For the sake of simplicity we will use the freely available [`nip.io`](https://nip.io/) service to construct a URL pointing to our local cluster.

> Assuming the following url `http://tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io`, run the following command to create the istio `Gateway` and `VirtualService` to expose the Dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming the following url `http://tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io`, run the following command to create the Istio `Gateway` and `VirtualService` to expose the Dashboard:
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
  name: tekton-dashboard
spec:
  selector:
    istio: ingressgateway
  servers:
    - port:
        number: 80
        name: http
        protocol: HTTP
      hosts:
        - tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io
---
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
  name: tekton-dashboard
spec:
  hosts:
    - tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io
  gateways:
    - tekton-dashboard
  http:
    - route:
        - destination:
            host: tekton-dashboard
            port:
              number: 9097
EOF
```

Browse `http://tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io` to access your dashboard.

> ## Browsing the istio dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Browsing the Istio dashboard
```

> You can browse the istio dashboard by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can browse the Istio dashboard by running the following command:
```

```bash
istioctl dashboard kiali
```

Default install uses `admin`/`admin` for login and password.

![Istio dashboard graph](./walkthrough-istio-kiali.png)

## Adding basic authentication

> When you are using istio there is a way of introducing an envoy filter which contains a way of introducing basic authentication for a certain domain and path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way of enabling basic authentication with Istio involves using an Envoy filter for a certain domain and path.
```
